# mitmengine

The goal of this project is to allow for accurate detection of HTTPS interception and robust TLS fingerprinting. 
This project is based off of [The Security Impact of HTTPS Interception](https://zakird.com/papers/https_interception.pdf), and started as a port to Go of [their processing scripts and fingerprints](https://github.com/zakird/tlsfingerprints).

## Signature and Fingerprints
In this project, fingerprints map to concrete instantiations of an object, while signatures can represent multiple objects. We use this convention because a fingerprint is usually an inherent property of an object, while a signature can be chosen. In the same way, an actual client request seen by a server would have a fingerprint, while the software generating the request can choose it's own signature (e.g., by choosing which cipher suites it supports).

### Client Request
A client request fingerprint is derived from a client request to a server, and contains both TLS and HTTP features. A client request signature represents all of the possible fingerprints that a piece of software can generate. The aim is to make each signature specific enough that it can uniquely identify a piece of software.

### User Agent
A user agent signature represent a set of user agents generated by a browser. A user agent signature for a browser allows for a range of browser versions, and allows for specifying the OS name, OS platform, OS version range, and device type for creating more fine-grained signatures.

### Browser
A browser signature contains both a user agent signature and a client request signature. This allows for a signature to represent all of the possible fingerprints generated by Chrome 31-38 on Windows 10, for example.

### Mitm
A mitm signature contains a client request signature along with additional details about the mitm software, including a security grade which can be affected by factors outside of the client request, such as whether or not the software validates certificates.

## MITM Detection Methodology
We consider an HTTPS connection to be intercepted when there is a mismatch
between the expected client request signature corresponding to the browser
identified by the user agent, and the actual client request fingerprint of the
request.

### False positives
If a signature is inaccurate or outdated for a given piece of client software,
it is possible that the signature will falsely flag a connection as being
intercepted.

### False negatives
If a proxy closely mimics the request of the client, then we may not expect to
detect a mismatch. If the browser signatures are overly broad, we will also
fail to detect interception.

## Testing
To test, run ```make test``` and to see code coverage, run ```make cover```.

## Godoc
Run ```make godoc``` or ```PKG=<sub-package> make godoc``` to generate godoc for mitmengine or any of the sub-packages.

## API
The intended entrypoint to the mitmengine package is through the `Processor.Check` function, which takes a user agent and client request fingerprint, and returns a mitm detection report. Additional API functions will be added in the future to allow for adding new signatures to a running process, for example.
